In the last lecture we've learned the basics of logging which we required to create our custom subscriber
that will listen to couple of travel events at once.
And those will be their cash events because we are using some caching actually.
So we'll see when we had a cash hit and cash miss.
So whenever something was read from cash or not as a useful information that we can for example post
somewhere so we'll just stored on the logs for simplicity.
Now to generate a new subscriber you will actually make a listener so BHP artisan make listener cash
subscriber.
That would be the name.
Now this will create a new class inside the least inner folder so least.
So this is our cash subscriber that doesn't interact with the Q Now it doesn't even have to have a constructor
and know how.
This is how subscribers are structured is well a little bit different than listener.
So let's open an example listener.
So I've said on the lecture about list owners that they only have one handle method that accepts one
type of an event.
Now that's not the case with least we've done subscriber sorry.
Actually they will have a separate method for every type of event that they handle.
So in this case we'll handle two events from the larval so build in events.
So let's use them.
So use illuminate cache events
and we'll have those two cash hit and there is also cash missed now for every one of those events that
we handle those built in lower level events that will be ultimately dispatched bilateral.
We will create our specific method with the name containing handle and then the event name.
So handle cash hit and this event is can be typing that as cash hit and another one.
Public function handle cash missed and here will also type gained cash missed event.
Now so you will handle all the logic related to whenever cash cash was read or actually missed so it
had to be read from the database.
But first we also have to add another method called subscribe.
So public functions subscribe.
So this method is kind of like a handle method in least in there.
So it has to beta.
It only accepts one parameter which are events and then on these events which is some object you call
the listener method.
So what you will do here is first argument you specified to what event this should listen.
So first we have the cash hit and this has to be a fully qualified class name and second one is the
actual class name of the handler which in our case is up these donors cash subscriber
and then using the ET sign.
You have to specify the method.
So this is handled cash hit so we are telling it to listen to this event.
Now we can copy it out because we are actually leased into two events.
The second one is cash missed and the method name is handling cash mixed
now.
Additionally you have to open event service provider.
And here you have this Listen field for leased owners but additionally we have to tell our travel about
the subscriber so this would be protected.
Subscribe and this only contains an array of all the subscribers that we should use inside a.
So there is no need actually and we'll add our new cash subscriber.
So this also has to be an array of fully qualified class names.
That's why we use the class constant of the cash subscriber.
So make sure you are adding your statement for this cash subscriber.
Now let's go to the actual logic
so we can read something about the cash hit or cash missed as those are events that have some data which
is value that was retrieved and all things like that.
So the important thing about the cash items is probably the key.
So we need to log what was read from the cash what wasn't.
So we'll use the lock for sale.
So make sure you are adding an import.
And we'll just log in form so the log low level that that's not an error we just log some information
that something has happened.
Now what we can do is we can log
that event key read from or just say something like cash hit and then on the cash missed we do log in
for event key cache miss.
So actually if you do not know what I'm doing here when you use this double quotes then using this curly
braces you can read some variables or data from BHP in this case what I'm reading the object property.
So we have those single ones you won't do that.
This would be this would just simply print whatever is inside those paragraphs but with the double ones
you can use some additional variables when you surround them with curly braces just so you know.
OK.
So we did basically everything.
And now what we will do is we'll go to the blog post please visit some blog posts and then you will
see how we can create logs based on that.
So let's go to a blog post let's visit this one.
This should create some cash.
Let's see that again and again.
Now let's find another one like this one let's click it again again and again.
And maybe this one.
All right that's enough.
Now let's go to the app storage logs for today and you can see what we have here.
So let's take a look.
So first our messages.
When we tried something.
So what you've learned about basics of logging and then you see all the other cache keys that you had
and lava is dispatching those events.
That's why we know that there was catch heat.
There was a cache miss.
First time we have visited our blog post and then after some time whenever we visited this again we
got cash heat.
So there was something found inside the cache.
So this way you can add subscribers for example to log some information about lava what's happening
inside it.
It also has some other events.
So there are events for the Q There are events for the queries that are being made by lava eloquent
but whatever that might be.
You can also subscribe to your own events in one simple subscriber.
But this cannot be easily converted to something that can run on a queue.
So that's the basic difference.
But anyway you can see how you can add some additional information log something or use this to your
benefit when subscribing to the default built in events that Lara is dispatching.